CSIR
1.
An app that will give GPS-based Dengue Risk Index.A GPS-enabled smartphone owner can find the susceptibility to dengue infection at the location where he is. This will be of great use to all sections
Problem Statement The energy derived from coal in India is about twice that of energy derived from oil. As coal is mined, there is always a risk of fire hazard at these coal mining sites. Hydraulic fluids are widely used in mining machineries. These hydraulic fluids are combustible and are used to transmit power and motion. Pressurized hydraulic fluids present a considerable fire hazard where ignition source is present. Mixing of hydraulic fluid with coal increases the risk of fire hazard in the mines. In view of the above, fire resistant characteristics of hydraulic fluids (Flame propagation, Spray Ignition, Auto-ignition Temperature etc.) needs to be experimentally studied under the simulated conditions. Data of experimental studies needs to be analyzed theoretically to assess the fire risk and to suggest preventive actions. 3. Sample Data Required, if yes, please describe: Experimental data on the fire resistant characteristics of different types of commercially available hydraulic fluids will be required for the theoretical risk assessment. 4. Name of CSIR Lab CSIR-Indian Institute of Petroleum 5. Nodal Person and Contact Details (Name, Designation, Mobile No. and Email): Mr. Pankaj Kumar Arya Scientist Mob: 7060081020 E-mail: pkarya@iip.res.in
 


2.
Smartphone App (Android) for providing agro advisories for medicinal and aromatic growers, enterprenuers and industries on plant disease/nutrient management, buyer/seller corner and market intelligence
 Problem Statement The cultivation of medicinal and aromatic crops can help in doubling the farm income. However, the growth of this agriculture sector requires intensive knowledge dissemination and hand holding of the farmers at various stages. CSIR – CIMAP is a premier research laboratory of CSIR, which is involved in multidisciplinary high quality research in agricultural, biological and chemical sciences and extending technologies and services to the farmers, entrepreneurs and industries of medicinal and aromatic plants (MAPs). This smartphone app developed should aim to bridge the knowledge GAP between the farmers, entrepreneurs, industries and scientific fraternity in the areas of agriculture, processing and market availability for fuelling the growth of medicinal and aroma industry and rural employment. This app should enable the user to capture the geo coded medicinal and aromatic plant related data to be uploaded in the central server, which, in turn can be used by the subject matter specialist (scientist) to provide suitable advisory on near real time basis. The app should also provide a buyer/seller corner with a moderator to provide a virtual platform for the buyers and sellers. It would help in removing the intermediaries and in turn increase the profitability to the farmer and industry. The app should have feature to use the market intelligence data from the database, APIs of the market data available (open source or subscription based) on medicinal and aromatic crops to be made available to the farmers, entrepreneurs and industries. 3. Sample Data Required, if yes, please describe: Test data can be provided 4. Name of CSIR Lab : CSIR – Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Lucknow 5. Nodal Person and Contact Details (Name, Designation, Mobile No. and Email): Name: Er Manoj Semwal Designation: Senior Scientist Mobile No: 09453049049 Email : m.semwal@cimap.res.in

3.
Mechanism for prescribing drug in hospitals and its or its substitute availability in the medical shops of the area/ city
Every citizen of the country visit a doctor or hospital in his lifetime for different health-related reasons In order to treat the patient doctors prescribes drug which may be generic or unique which is purchased from a medical shop. It is often seen that patient has to visit several medical shops to fetch the prescribed medicine as he is unaware of different options for a drug salt available to him. Therefore an application can developed wherein the prescription from a doctor/hospital is digitalized and directly transferred to patient or caretaker who may have an app to assess the options and availability of the drug in the vicinity/ city. This may require linking all brand names for a drug/ or it salt in a database which may be available to the doctor and the user. Simultaneously this database may be linked with availability of such drugs at different medical shops (based on the licenses issued by drug controller) which can be identified by a map. Due to large volume of data, initially a sample size can be determined and taken to calculate the match Sample Data Required, if yes, please describe: Yes Name of CSIR Lab : CSIR – Central Drug Research Institute Nodal Person and Contact Details (Name, Designation, Mobile No. and Email): Dr. Anand Kulkarni, Senior Scientist, CSIR-CDRI Phone: 0522-2772459 Mob: 09451316745 Fax: 0522-2771941 E-mail: anand_kulkarni@cdri.res.in

ISRO
1.
Computerized Application for Paper-less Examination Screening (CAPES) system for recruitment
i. A large number of Job Seekers have to apply for various posts and appear for examinations at specified locations on a particular date and time. ii. Job Seekers have to spend considerable funds, time and efforts to reach the examination centers and personally appear in examinations. iii. Many a times, job seekers are not in position to travel due to various reasons like non-availability of railway tickets, examination centers are far off or are not able to afford the expanses towards appearing in exam. iv. Due to socio-political situations like Bandhs, Strikes, Road block or riots etcs, the job seeker is unable to reach the examination centers Uses Of Proposed system are Many Fold : i. Looking at various difficulties faced by Job Seekers and availability of Internet connectivity a web based centrally controlled SW solution with a mobile app can provide a better, cost effective and easy solution to both job seekers as well as recruiting agencies. ii. Similarly, the recruiting departments have to spend lot of money and efforts to process large number of applications, arrangement examination centers, supervisors, invigilators and so-on to carry out the activity. By having web based solution lot of time, efforts and money can be saved. Technology To Be Used: i. Open Source Technology can be used to create a web portal wherein the job seekers can apply for a particular Job and a application Id is assigned to the applicant with on-line verification carried out using Aadhar number and registered mobile number. ii. Various alerts and e-mails are sent to applicant by system based on activity performed. iii. Smart Phone based mobile app be created where the applicant registers with assigned id as well as Aadhar Number for the purpose of authentication. ICT Based Solution: i. A strong MCQ ( Multiple- Choice Questions) data bank related to proposed job is created on central data base by experts and answers are also stored in data base tables in encrypted format. Each MCQ should be stored in matrix with defined time to solve each question. ii. During the period of examination the mobile app should be connected to central data base. iii. Android base app should be developed to enable job seekers appear in examination from anywhere and any time (During the period lines are open). iv. Number of users , no of web pages and transactions volumes can be assessed and scaled based on type of job and expected number of applicants. v. A well-defined, configurable application can help in fully ICT based solution and productize the same.

2.	WE CAN USE BLOCKCHAIN HERE.
For online Job Applications received by NIELIT, the credentials of Candidates (if available on Digital Locker or any other repository) should be verified instantly online.
While applying for different recruitments through online application softcopy uploading of documents like educational qualification, D.O.B proof, category certificate etc. of candidate is required. This result in unnecessary utilization of server space as each application requires approx. 2MB storage space and thousands of applications are received. If credentials are verified then & there at the time of application receiving (uploading), it will be beneficial for all stakeholders. Integration solution with generic interface is needed.

